[Excel](custom functions) error handling preview (#1409)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/custom-functions-errors.md

---
ms.date: 10/31/2019
description: 'Handle and return errors like #NULL! from your custom function'
title: Handle and return errors from your custom function (preview)
localization_priority: Priority
---

# Handle and return errors from your custom function (preview)

> [!NOTE]

> > The features described in this article are currently in preview and subject to change. They are not currently supported for use in production environments. You will need to [join the Office Insider for PC](https://insider.office.com/en-us/join) to try the preview features.  A good way to try out preview features is by using an Office 365 subscription. If you don't already have an Office 365 subscription, you can get one by joining the [Office 365 Developer Program](https://developer.microsoft.com/office/dev-program).

Reviewer: Do I have to join Office Insider _for PC_ -- or can I join other variations like Office Insider _for Mac_?  Consider removing "for PC" unless joining that specific variation of Office Insider is required (and none of the other variations are valid).

Author: Thanks, changed to just say Office Insider.

> If something goes wrong while your custom function runs, you will need to return an error to inform the user. If you have specific parameter requirements, such as only positive numbers, you will need to test the parameters and throw an error if they are not correct. You can also use a try catch block to catch any errors that occur while your custom function runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If something goes wrong while your custom function runs, you will need to return an error to inform the user. If you have specific parameter requirements, such as only positive numbers, you will need to test the parameters and throw an error if they are not correct. You can also use a `try`-`catch` block to catch any errors that occur while your custom function runs.
```

Reviewer 2: Just to be consistent with Kim's suggestion below

## Detect and throw an error

> Let’s look at a case where you need to ensure that a zip code parameter is in the correct format for the custom function to work. The following custom function uses a regular expression to check the zip code. If it is correct, then it will look up the city (in another function) and return the value. If it is not correct, it returns a #VALUE! error to the cell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s look at a case where you need to ensure that a zip code parameter is in the correct format for the custom function to work. The following custom function uses a regular expression to verify the format of the zip code. If it is correct, then it will look up the city (in another function) and return the value. If it is not correct, it returns a `#VALUE!` error to the cell.
```

```typescript
/**
* Gets a city name for the given zip code.
* @customfunction
* @param {string} zipCode
* @returns The city of the zip code.
*/
function getCity(zipCode: string): string {
  let isValidZip = /(^\d{5}$)|(^\d{5}-\d{4}$)/.test(zipCode);
  if (isValidZip) return cityLookup(zipCode);
  let error = new CustomFunctions.Error(CustomFunctions.ErrorCode.invalidValue, "Please provide a valid zip code.");
  throw error;
}
```

## The CustomFunctions.Error object

> The **CustomFunctions.Error** object is used to return an error back to the cell. When you create the object, specify which error you want to use by using one of the **ErrorCode** enum values. The following **ErrorCode** enum values can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CustomFunctions.Error` object is used to return an error back to the cell. When you create the object, specify which error you want to use by using one of the following `ErrorCode` enum values.
```

> The **CustomFunctions.Error** object is used to return an error back to the cell. When you create the object, specify which error you want to use by using one of the **ErrorCode** enum values. The following **ErrorCode** enum values can be used.

Reviewer: Object|function|property names should be formatted as code, to prevent localization.

> |ErrorCode enum value  |Excel cell value  |Usage meaning  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|ErrorCode enum value  |Excel cell value  |Meaning  |
```

|---------------|---------|---------|

> |invalidValue   | #VALUE! | A value used in the formula is the wrong type. |

Reviewer: Seems like `#VALUE!` and all other error codes (in this table and throughout this article) should be formatted as code (not plain text).

Author: Thanks, I fixed up the rest.

> |invalidValue   | #VALUE! | A value used in the formula is the wrong type. |

Reviewer: Also seems like all ErrorCode enum values should be formatted as code (e.g., `invalidValue`), to prevent localization.

Author: Fixed.

|notAvailable   | #N/A    | The function or service is not available. |
|divisionByZero | #DIV/0  | Be aware that JavaScript allows division by zero so you need to write an error handler carefully to detect this condition. |
|invalidNumber  | #NUM!   | There is a problem with the number used in the formula |
|nullReference  | #NULL!  | The ranges in the formula do not intersect. |

> The following code sample shows how to create and return an error for an invalid number (#NUM!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code sample shows how to create and return an error for an invalid number (`#NUM!`).
```

```typescript
let error = new CustomFunctions.Error(CustomFunctions.ErrorCode.invalidNumber);
throw error;
```

> When you return a #VALUE! error you can also include a custom message that will be shown in a popup when the user hovers over the cell. The following example shows how to return a custom error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you return a `#VALUE!` error you can also include a custom message that will be shown in a popup when the user hovers over the cell. The following example shows how to return a custom error message.
```

```typescript
// You can only return a custom error message with the #VALUE! error
let error = new CustomFunctions.Error(CustomFunctions.ErrorCode.invalidValue, “The parameter can only contain lowercase characters.”);
throw error;
```

> ## Use try catch blocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use try-catch blocks
```

> In general you should use try catch blocks in your custom function to catch any potential errors that occur. If you do not handle exceptions in your code, they will be returned to Excel. Excel will default to return #VALUE! for all unhandled exceptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, you should use `try`-`catch` blocks in your custom function to catch any potential errors that occur. If you do not handle exceptions in your code, they will be returned to Excel. By default, Excel returns `#VALUE!` for an unhandled exception.
```

> In the following code sample, the custom function makes a fetch call to a REST service. It is possible the REST service returns an error, or the network goes down. If this happens the custom function will return #N/A to indicate the web call was not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following code sample, the custom function makes a fetch call to a REST service. It's possible that the call will fail, for example, if the REST service returns an error or the network goes down. If this happens, the custom function will return `#N/A` to indicate the web call failed.
```

      return json.body;
    })
    .catch(function (error) {
      throw new CustomFunctions.Error(CustomFunctions.ErrorCode.notAvailable);
    })
}
```

## Next steps

Learn how to [troubleshoot problems with your custom functions](custom-functions-troubleshooting.md).

> ## See also

Reviewer 2: You may want to make sure debugging article has a See also link as well to this article for discoverability purposes
